README.md, before:

# jupyter-jsc-custom-share-template
Template repository for custom JupyterHub templates and static files.

To use this template, click **Use this template** above the file list 
![template](img/template.png)
and select **Include all branches** when creating your repository.
![all_branches](img/all_branches.png)

Reference templates and static files used by the Jupyter-JSC JupyterHub can be found [in this repository](https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-jsc-share).

## How to create custom files

You have the options to only modify files which should be different from the [default files](https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-jsc-share/tree/main/jupyterhub) used by Jupyter-JSC. 

To help you to know which files you should modify, the `templates` branch contains files which frequently need to be modified for custom JupyterHub instances. The `static` branch contains frequently modified static files such as css files, custom logos, etc.

If you don't want to modify a certain file but use the Jupyter-JSC default, delete it from the respective branch to take advantage of any updates such as bugfixes on Jupyter-JSC's side.

If you want to modify a file which is not present in this template repository, feel free to copy it from [the Jupyter-JSC repository](https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-jsc-share) or create your own from scratch.


## How to test custom files
You can and should test any changes. **HOWEVER**, some variables are created and passed to the templates by the custom JupyterHub Jupyter-JSC uses. Because of this, templates will likely not render correctly for your local JupyterHub installation. For more information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-jsc-custom-share-template/tree/templates#why-wont-my-template-render-correctly) in the `templates` branch.

To tell JupyterHub where it should look for templates and static data, you can specify template and data paths in your [JupyterHub config file](https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/getting-started/config-basics.html). Some templates expect additional parameters which are also set in the configuration file. 

```python
# jupyterhub_config.py

c.JupyterHub.template_paths = ["<path/to/template/files>"]  # list
c.JupyterHub.data_files_path = "<path/to/static/files>"  # string

# Additional template variables expected by some templates
c.JupyterHub.template_vars = {
    "spawn_progress_update_url": "users/progress/update",
    "user_cancel_message": "Start cancelled by user.</summary>You clicked the cancel button.</details>",
    "hostname": "<your.hostname>",  # e.g. jupyter-jsc.fz-juelich.de 
}

```

Then, start a local JupyterHub using the config file: `jupyterhub -f /path/to/jupyterhub_config.py`

Commit message:

Update README with staging/production info

README.md, after:

# jupyter-jsc-custom-share-template
Template repository for custom JupyterHub templates and static files.

To use this template, click **Use this template** above the file list 
![template](img/template.png)
and select **Include all branches** when creating your repository.
![all_branches](img/all_branches.png)

Reference templates and static files used by the Jupyter-JSC JupyterHub can be found [in this repository](https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-jsc-share).

## How to create custom files

Any files which are placed in the `templates` and `static` branches will be used by Jupyter-JSC instead of the [default files](https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-jsc-share/tree/main/jupyterhub). To help you to know which files you should modify, the `templates` branch contains files which are frequently  modified for custom JupyterHub instances. The `static` branch contains frequently modified static files such as css files, custom logos, etc.

If you don't want to modify a certain file but use the Jupyter-JSC default, delete it from the respective branch to take advantage of any updates such as bugfixes on Jupyter-JSC's side.

If you want to modify a file which is not present in this template repository, feel free to copy it from [the Jupyter-JSC repository](https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-jsc-share) or create your own from scratch.

Use the `staging` version of the `templates` and `static` branches to deploy the changes to the staging JupyterHub instance. After 60 seconds, you will see the changes on your staging instance. Once you are satisfied with your changes, merge the `staging` branches into their respective `production` branch.

## How to test custom files
### The convenient way - push to staging
You can and should test any changes. The convenient way is to push changes to the `staging` branches of your repository and wait 60 seconds for your changes to appear on your JupyterHub instance.

### The difficult way - locally
Alternatively, you can also test any changes with a local JupyterHub. **HOWEVER**, some variables are created and passed to the templates by the custom JupyterHub Jupyter-JSC uses. Because of this, templates will likely not render correctly for your local JupyterHub installation. For more information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/jupyter-jsc-custom-share-template/tree/templates#why-wont-my-template-render-correctly) in the `templates` branch.

To tell JupyterHub where it should look for templates and static data, you can specify template and data paths in your [JupyterHub config file](https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/getting-started/config-basics.html). Some templates expect additional parameters which are also set in the configuration file. 

```python
# jupyterhub_config.py

c.JupyterHub.template_paths = ["<path/to/template/files>"]  # list
c.JupyterHub.data_files_path = "<path/to/static/files>"  # string

# Additional template variables expected by some templates
c.JupyterHub.template_vars = {
    "spawn_progress_update_url": "users/progress/update",
    "user_cancel_message": "Start cancelled by user.</summary>You clicked the cancel button.</details>",
    "hostname": "<your.hostname>",  # e.g. jupyter-jsc.fz-juelich.de 
}

```

Then, start a local JupyterHub using the config file: `jupyterhub -f /path/to/jupyterhub_config.py`
